# CS300
SNHU CS300

The projects involved in this course focused on solving the problem of how data from an external file could be read, parsed, stored, and managed with various data structures. For context, the project used a fictional school, ABC University (ABCU) that wanted a program that could read course information from a text file, store it, and provide a way for the user of the application to search through the course lists and print all courses in alphanumerical order. The text file consisted of course information on each line. So, each line would contain the Course Number (i.e. CSCI300, MATH201, etc.), the course Name, and if that course had prerequisites, those would be listed as well. Each attribute is separated by a comma. The primary problem being solved was how to accomplish this, with what data structure, and how efficient is the structure?

My initial approach to the problem stemmed from understanding the various data structures available as options for the assignement and how they interact with data. There was a choice of using a Vector, Hash Table, and Binary Search Tree. My initial thought was to use a Hash Table, as it offered the most compelling time complexity for standard operations such as Insertion, Deletion, and Searching. Due to the nature of hash tables, it made sense to me to pursue that as the selected data structure. However, this was complicated by the introduction of the project requiring the option to print everything in alphanumerical order. Since Hash Tables can't really inherently be sorted, this requirement complicated things. However, I made the decision to still pursue the hash table option. 

One of the first roadblocks I encountered in this project was the initial parsing of the data. I started coding it in a way in which the program would open the file, parse the line, validate whether it was valid, checked into prerequisites to ensure they existed as courses, and if it all checked out, the created course object would be inserted into the Hash Table. However, this presented an issue. Since the courses listed in the text file are out of order, the program would come across a line for a course that did have prerequisites. The program would then check to see if those prerequisites had been inserted into the hash table, in other words to validate they existed in the file. Since the courses are listed out of order, the program hadn't come across the courses yet, meaning it would think the prerequisites were invalid and skip the insertion of the course on that line. This results in skipping most classes. To workaround this, I implemented a two pass system. The first pass would simply check to ensure the line is valid, create the course object, and insert it into the hash table. Once the text file had been read and all courses inserted into the hash table, it would perform a second pass. The program would check each inserted course and if it has prerequisites listed, it would look for that prerequisite's course number in the hash table - validating whether it existed or not. If a course has a prerequisite that does not exist, the program would remove that course from the Hash Table accordingly. 

This project has introduced the concept of data structures and the role they place when programming. Moving forward, I'm able to take into consideration how data is utilized in a program, how memory is allocated and accessed, and what limitations various data structures may have. It also emphasized how important consistent and clear comments are when coding. There was a prime example of how confusing poor comments can be in one of the assignments, where the provided code had several pretty significant errors in the comments used throughout the code, which led to a lot of confusion. There were also several instances of comments, and instruction even, completely missed or forgotten, which again led to a lot of confusion on my part. So, the importance of clear and thoughtful comments became very clear to me throughout this course. 
